DOCSP-45184-ruby-replica-sets (#119)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/read-write-pref.txt

The following table describes the ``write_concern`` parameters:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Parameter
     - Type
     - Description
  
   * - ``w`` *(optional)*
     - integer or string
     - Requests acknowledgment that the write operation has propagated to a specified
       number of ``mongod`` instances or to ``mongod`` instances that are labelled
       specified tags.

   * - ``wtimeoutMS`` *(optional)*
     - integer
     - Specifies a time limit to prevent write operations from blocking indefinitely.

   * - ``journal`` *(optional)*
     - boolean
     - Requests acknowledgment that the write operation has been written to the 
       on-disk journal.

Example: Set the Write Concern for a Single Write Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This code uses custom ``write_concern`` settings while creating new a document:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-write-concern
   :end-before: end-write-concern

Example: Retrieve and Apply an Existing Write Concern
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This code uses the ``new_write_concern`` method to construct a ``write_concern`` from
> the options of an existing database reference, ``myDB``. ``myDB`` can be 
> replaced with a reference to any entity that accepts a write concern option. 
> Then the new write concern is applied to a document, ``myDoc``:

Reviewer: The structure of this paragraph made it a little bit hard for me to understand. I think mostly it's because of the middle sentence breaking up the flow. I think it could be better restructured to take that second sentence and use it as a tip or note after the example.

Also I think taking away references to the variable names helps generalize this so that users don't think those exact names are required.
```suggestion
The following code uses the ``new_write_concern`` method to construct a ``write_concern`` from
the options of an existing database reference.
Then the new write concern is applied to an inserted document.
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-write-concern-2
   :end-before: end-write-concern-2

Read Concern
------------

The read concern specifies the following behaviors:

> - Level of :manual:`causal consistency </core/causal-consistency-read-write-concerns/>`
>   across replica sets.
> 
> - `Isolation guarantees <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/current/core/read-isolation-consistency-recency/>`__ 
>   maintained during a query.

Reviewer: No periods since these aren't complete sentences
```suggestion
- Level of :manual:`causal consistency </core/causal-consistency-read-write-concerns/>`
  across replica sets

- `Isolation guarantees <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/current/core/read-isolation-consistency-recency/>`__ 
  maintained during a query
```

You can specify the read concern setting by using the ``level`` parameter. The default
read concern level is ``local``. This means that the client returns the data from the
replica set member that the client is connected to, with no guarantee that the data has
been written to all replica set members.

> .. note::
>     Lower read concern level requirements may reduce latency. 

Reviewer: rST error:
```suggestion
.. note::

   Lower read concern level requirements may reduce latency. 
```

Reviewer: Bumping this

For more information about read concerns or read concern levels, see 

> :manual:`Read Concern </reference/read-concern/>` in the Server manual. For more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:manual:`Read Concern </reference/read-concern/>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual. For more
```

detail on the ``read_concern`` type and definitions of the read concern levels, see

> the `Read Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Read Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__ 
```

in the API documentation.

Example: Set the Read Concern Level of an Aggregation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This code sets the read concern level of an aggregation to `"available"`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The folowing code sets the read concern level of an aggregation to `"available"`:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-concern
   :end-before: end-read-concern

For more information about aggregates, see the `ruby-aggregation <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/upcoming/reference/aggregation/>`_ 

> page.

Reviewer: This should be a :ref: tag to the Aggregation page rather than a hardcoded link (and if one doesn't exist in the standardization branch yet then this can just be marked as a Todo for now)

Reviewer: Bumping this comment since it's still a hard-coded link

Example: Change the Read Concern of a Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This code changes the read concern level of a database to ``"local"``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code changes the read concern level of a database to ``"local"``:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-change-read-concern
   :end-before: end-change-read-concern

Read Preference
---------------

The read preference determines which member of a replica set MongoDB reads when running a
query. You can also customize how the server evaluates members. 

For more detailed API documentation, see the `Read Preference API
documentation <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__.

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: Introduce this table with a brief sentence describing what it shows

   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Parameter
     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``mode``
     - ``Symbol``
     - Specifies a requirement or preference for which replica set
       member the server reads from. The default mode, ``:primary``, specifies that
       operations read from the primary member of the replica set.

   * - ``tags`` *(optional)*
     - ``Array<Hash>``
     - Assigns tags to secondary replica set members to customize how the server evaluates
       them. Tags cannot be used with the ``:primary`` read preference mode setting.

   * - ``options`` *(optional)*
     - ``Hash``
     - Sets various options, including :manual:`hedge </core/read-preference-hedge-option/>`
       and :manual:`maxStalenessSeconds </core/read-preference-staleness/>` that can be
       applied to your read preference.

Example: Set Read Preference and Concerns for a Transaction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This code sets the read preference, read concern, and write concern for the operations in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code sets the read preference, read concern, and write concern for the operations in
```

a transaction:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-preference
   :end-before: end-read-preference

> For more information about transactions, see `ruby-transactions <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/upcoming/reference/transactions/>`_.

Reviewer: Update this to a :ref: tag

Example: Set the Read Preference of a Cluster in the Connection String
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This code example creates a MongoClient that uses the "secondary" read preference mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code example creates a ``MongoClient`` that uses the ``secondary`` read preference mode
```

when performing queries on a cluster:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-preference-cluster
   :end-before: end-read-preference-cluster

> This example also sets the ``maxStalenessSeconds`` option. For more information 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding example also sets the ``maxStalenessSeconds`` option to ``120``. For more information 
```

about connection string options, see the :manual:`Connection String Options </reference/connection-string/#connection-string-options>`

> section in the manual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
section in the {+mdb-server+} manual.
```

API Documentation
-----------------

To learn more about the methods and types mentioned in this guide, see the following API
documentation:

> - `API Write Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#write_concern-instance_method>`__
> - `API Read Concern <{+api+}/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__
> - `API Read Preference <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__

Reviewer: S: I don't think API is needed in these links since they're introduced as links to API pages
```suggestion
- `Write Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#write_concern-instance_method>`__
- `Read Concern <{+api+}/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__
- `Read Preference <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__
```

**read preference** configurations to modify the way that MongoDB runs
create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) operations on replica sets.

You can set write concern, read concern, and read preference options at the following
levels:

- Client, which sets the *default for all operation executions* unless overridden
- Session
- Transaction
- Database
- Collection

The preceding list also indicates the increasing order of precedence of the option
settings. For example, if you set a read concern level for a transaction, it will
override a read concern level set for the client.

These options allow you to customize the causal consistency and availability of the data
in your replica sets.

Write Concern
-------------

The write concern specifies the level of acknowledgement requested from MongoDB for 
write operations, such as an insert or update, before the operation successfully returns.
Operations that do not specify an explicit write concern inherit the global default write
concern settings.

For more information, see :manual:`Write Concern </reference/write-concern/>` in the
{+mdb-server+} manual. For detailed API documentation, see the `Write Concern API documentation

> <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#write_concern-instance_method>`__.

Reviewer: Looks like there's a source constant for the beginning of this URL too:
```suggestion
<{+api-root+}/Mongo/Client.html#write_concern-instance_method>`__.
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Parameter
     - Type
     - Description
  
   * - ``w`` *(optional)*
     - integer or string
     - Requests acknowledgment that the write operation has propagated to a specified
       number of ``mongod`` instances or to ``mongod`` instances that are labelled
       with specified tags.

   * - ``wtimeoutMS`` *(optional)*
     - integer
     - Specifies a time limit to prevent write operations from blocking indefinitely.

   * - ``journal`` *(optional)*
     - boolean
     - Requests acknowledgment that the write operation has been written to the 
       on-disk journal.

Example: Set the Write Concern for a Single Write Operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code creates a new document and specifies the ``w`` and ``wtimeout``
write concern settings:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-write-concern
   :end-before: end-write-concern

Example: Retrieve and Apply an Existing Write Concern
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This code uses the ``new_write_concern`` method to construct a ``write_concern`` from

Reviewer: "This" is ambiguous. Use something like "the following" or "the preceding" when referring to sections on a page
```suggestion
The following code uses the ``new_write_concern`` method to construct a ``write_concern`` from
```

the options of an existing database reference, ``myDB``.  
Then the new write concern is applied to an inserted document.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-write-concern-2
   :end-before: end-write-concern-2

.. note::

    ``myDB`` can be replaced with a reference to any entity that accepts a write concern option.

Read Concern
------------

The read concern specifies the following behaviors:

- Level of :manual:`causal consistency </core/causal-consistency-read-write-concerns/>`
  across replica sets

> - `Isolation guarantees <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/current/core/read-isolation-consistency-recency/>`__ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :manual:`Isolation guarantees </core/read-isolation-consistency-recency/>`__ 
```

  maintained during a query

You can specify the read concern setting by using the ``level`` parameter. The default
read concern level is ``local``. This means that the client returns the data from the
replica set member that the client is connected to, with no guarantee that the data has
been written to all replica set members.

.. note::
    Lower read concern level requirements may reduce latency. 

For more information about read concerns or read concern levels, see 
:manual:`Read Concern </reference/read-concern/>` in the {+mdb-server+}  manual. For more
detail on the ``read_concern`` type and definitions of the read concern levels, see
`Read Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__ 
in the API documentation.

Example: Set the Read Concern Level of an Aggregation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code sets the read concern level of an aggregation to `"available"`:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-concern
   :end-before: end-read-concern

> For more information about aggregates, see the `ruby-aggregation <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/upcoming/reference/aggregation/>`_ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about aggregation, see the `ruby-aggregation <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/upcoming/reference/aggregation/>`_ 
```

page.

Example: Change the Read Concern of a Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code changes the read concern level of a database to ``"local"``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-change-read-concern
   :end-before: end-change-read-concern

Read Preference
---------------

The read preference determines which member of a replica set MongoDB reads when running a
query.

For more detailed API documentation, see the `Read Preference API
documentation <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__.

> The following table shows how to customize how the server evaluates members:

Reviewer: S: To eliminate word repetition
```suggestion
The following table shows options you can use to customize how the server evaluates members:
```

     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``mode``
     - ``Symbol``
     - Specifies a requirement or preference for which replica set
       member the server reads from. The default mode, ``:primary``, specifies that
       operations read from the primary member of the replica set.

   * - ``tags`` *(optional)*
     - ``Array<Hash>``
     - Assigns tags to secondary replica set members to customize how the server evaluates
       them. Tags cannot be used with the ``:primary`` read preference mode setting.

   * - ``options`` *(optional)*
     - ``Hash``
     - Sets various options, including :manual:`hedge </core/read-preference-hedge-option/>`
       and :manual:`maxStalenessSeconds </core/read-preference-staleness/>` that can be
       applied to your read preference.

Example: Set Read Preference and Concerns for a Transaction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code sets the read preference, read concern, and write concern for
the operations in a transaction:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-preference
   :end-before: end-read-preference

> For more information about transactions, see :ref:`ruby-transactions`_.

Reviewer: Broken link (:ref: tags don't need the underscores at the end like manual links do)
```suggestion
For more information about transactions, see the :ref:`Transactions <ruby-transactions>` guide.
```

Example: Set the Read Preference of a Cluster in the Connection String
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This code example creates a ``MongoClient`` that uses the ``secondary`` read 
preference mode when performing queries on a cluster:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-preference-cluster
   :end-before: end-read-preference-cluster

The preceding example also sets the ``maxStalenessSeconds`` option to ``120``. 
For more information about connection string options, see the :manual:`Connection String Options </reference/connection-string/#connection-string-options>`
section in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

API Documentation
-----------------

To learn more about the methods and types mentioned in this guide, see the following API
documentation:

> - `Write Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#write_concern-instance_method>`__
> - `Read Concern <{+api+}/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__
> - `Read Preference <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Write Concern <{+api+}/Mongo/Client.html#write_concern-instance_method>`__
- `Read Concern <{+api+}/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__
- `Read Preference <{+api+}/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-write-concern-2
   :end-before: end-write-concern-2

.. note::

    ``myDB`` can be replaced with a reference to any entity that accepts a write concern option.

Read Concern
------------

The read concern specifies the following behaviors:

- Level of :manual:`causal consistency </core/causal-consistency-read-write-concerns/>`
  across replica sets

- :manual:`Isolation guarantees </core/read-isolation-consistency-recency/>`
  maintained during a query

You can specify the read concern setting by using the ``level`` parameter. The default
read concern level is ``local``. This means that the client returns the data from the
replica set member that the client is connected to, with no guarantee that the data has
been written to all replica set members.

.. note::
    Lower read concern level requirements may reduce latency. 

For more information about read concerns or read concern levels, see 
:manual:`Read Concern </reference/read-concern/>` in the {+mdb-server+}  manual. For more
detail on the ``read_concern`` type and definitions of the read concern levels, see

> `Read Concern <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Read Concern <{+api-root+}/Mongo/Client.html#read_concern-instance_method>`__ 
```

in the API documentation.

Example: Set the Read Concern Level of an Aggregation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code sets the read concern level of an aggregation to ``"available"``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-concern
   :end-before: end-read-concern

For more information about aggregation, see the Aggregation page.

.. TODO: insert :ref:`Aggregation <ruby-aggregation>` link here

Example: Change the Read Concern of a Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code changes the read concern level of a database to ``"local"``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-change-read-concern
   :end-before: end-change-read-concern

Read Preference
---------------

The read preference determines which member of a replica set MongoDB reads when running a
query.

For more detailed API documentation, see the `Read Preference API

> documentation <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentation <{+api-root+}/Mongo/Collection/View/Readable.html#read_preference-instance_method>`__.
```

     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``mode``
     - ``Symbol``
     - Specifies a requirement or preference for which replica set
       member the server reads from. The default mode, ``:primary``, specifies that
       operations read from the primary member of the replica set.

   * - ``tags`` *(optional)*
     - ``Array<Hash>``
     - Assigns tags to secondary replica set members to customize how the server evaluates
       them. Tags cannot be used with the ``:primary`` read preference mode setting.

   * - ``options`` *(optional)*
     - ``Hash``
     - Sets various options, including :manual:`hedge </core/read-preference-hedge-option/>`
       and :manual:`maxStalenessSeconds </core/read-preference-staleness/>` that can be
       applied to your read preference.

Example: Set Read Preference and Concerns for a Transaction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code sets the read preference, read concern, and write concern for
the operations in a transaction:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/read-write-pref.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-read-preference
   :end-before: end-read-preference

> For more information about transactions, see the Transactions guide.

Reviewer: I think this should be commented out as well until the TODO is done, that way it doesn't look like a broken link (applies to all TODO links)
